## Codes for calculating derived variables from POP outputs

This directory contains codes used that were used to process the raw (monthly averaged) POP outputs. Most of them produce one or more of the \*.npz and netCDF files located in the `../data_reproduce_figs` directory.

Brief description of the purpose of each \*.py file:

* `00-isobaths.py`: Extracts isobaths from the model topography following the procedure explained on Figure S1 (supplemental materials of the manuscript), and calculates the masks that convert the model zonal/meridional velocities to volume transports across the 1000 m isobath.
* `calc_tseriesvar.py`: Calculates time-averaged fields from the monthly POP files (_e.g._, bottom potential temperature, eddy kinetic energy, surface buoyancy flux).
* `132-calc_secFadv_subsegavgs.py`: Calculates along-isobath averages of the mean and eddy overturning streamfunctions and the cross-shelf profiles of the individual components of the total heat transport (time-mean, total eddy, eddy advection and eddy stirring).
* `110c-xisob_heat_melting_timevarying.py`: Calculates the eddy and mean heat transports from the model velocity-temperature covariance fields.
* `112-alongshelf_xwbry_heat_melting_timevarying.py`: Same as `110c-xisob_heat_melting_timevarying.py`, but for the along-shelf heat transports across the western wall of each of the 10 segments (defined on Figure 1a of the manuscript).
* `110z-concat_xisob_heat_melting_tseries.py` and `112z-concat_alongshelf_xwbry_heat_melting_tseries.py`: They Concatenate the outputs of the two scripts above. These scripts are helpful because the time series of the cross-isobath/along-isobath heat transports were generated by several jobs running at the same time on different subsets of the full 1959-2009 model time series.

Please contact [André Palóczy](mailto:apaloczy@ucsd.edu) with any questions on the code.
